Anyone who reads Old and Middle English literary texts will be
familiar with the mid-brown volumes of the EETS, with the symbol
of Alfred's jewel embossed on the front cover. Most of
the works attributed to King Alfred or to Aelfric, along wit
h some of those by bishop Wulfstan and much anonymous prose and verse fr
om the pre-Conquest period, are to be found within the Society's three series;
all of the surviving medieval drama, most of the Middle English romances, m
uch religious and secular prose and verse including the English works of John Gow
er, Thomas Hoccleve and most of Caxton's prints all find their place in the publication
s. Without EETS editions, study of medieval English texts would hardly be possible.
As its name states, EETS was begun as a 'club', and it retains certain features of tha
 even now. It has no physical location, or even office, no paid staff or editors,
but books in the Original Series are published in the first place to sat
isfy subscriptions paid by individuals or institu
tions. This means that there is need for a regular seque
nce of new editions, normally one or two per year; achiev
ing that sequence can pose problems for the Editorial Secretary, who may have too few or too
many texts ready for publication at any one time. Deta
ils on a separate sheet explain how individual (but not institutional) membe
rs can choose to take certain back volumes in pl
ace of the newly published volumes agains
t their subscriptions. On the same sheet are g
iven details about the very advantageous discount availabl
e to individual members on all back numbers. In 1970 a Supple
mentary Series was begun, a series which only appea
rs occasionally (it currently has 24 volumes within it); some
of these are new editions of texts earlier appearing in the main series. Aga
in these volumes are available at publication
and later at a substantial discount to members
. All these advantages can only be obtained through the Member
ship Secretary (the books are sent by post); they are not available through booksh
ops, and such bookstores as carry EETS books have only a very limi
ted selection of the many published.
Editors, who receive no royalties or expe
nses and who are only very rarely commissi
oned by the Society, are encouraged to approach the Editorial Secretary with a detaile
d proposal of the text they wish to suggest to the So
ciety early in their work; interest may be expressed at tha
t point, but before any text is accepted for pu
blication the final typescript must be ap
proved by the Council (a body of some twenty schola
rs), and then assigned a place in the printing schedule. The Society
 now has a stylesheet to guide editors in the layout and conventions acc
 eptable within its series. No prescriptive set of editorial principles is 
 laid down, but it is usually expected that the evid
ence of all relevant medieval copies of the text(s) in que
stion will have been considered, and that the texts edited will be comple
te whatever their length. Editions are directed at a schol
arly readership rather than a popular one; though they normally provi
de a glossary and notes, no translation is provided.
